The President:
The other day, I was talking about education with some folks
in the backyard of an
Albuquerque home,
and someone asked a question
that's stayed with me.
He asked, if we don't have homes
to go to,
what good is an education?
It was a heartfelt question, one
that could be asked by anyone
who's lost a home or a job in
this recession.
Because if you're out of work or
facing foreclosure,
all that really matters is a new
job.
All that really matters is a
roof over your head.
All that really matters is
getting back on your feet.
That's why I'm fighting each and
every day to jumpstart
job-creation in the private
sector;
to help our small business
owners grow and hire;
to rebuild our economy so it
lifts up a middle class that's
been battered for so long.
But even as we focus on doing
all that;
even as we focus on speeding up
our economic recovery;
we also know that when it comes
to jobs, opportunity,
and prosperity in the 21st
century,
nothing is more important than
the quality of your education.
At a time when most of the new
jobs being created will require
some kind of higher education;
when countries that out-educate
us today will outcompete us
tomorrow,
giving our kids the best
education possible is an
economic imperative.
That's why, from the start of my
administration,
we've been fighting to offer
every child in this country a
world-class education -- from the cradle to the classroom,
from college through a career.
Earlier this week, I announced a
new Skills for America's Future
initiative that will help
community colleges and employers
match what's taught in the
classroom with what's needed in
the private sector, so we can
connect students looking for
jobs with businesses looking to
hire.
We're eliminating tens of
billions of dollars in wasteful
subsidies for banks to
administer student loans,
and using that money to make
college more affordable for
millions of students.
And we've launched a Race to the
Top in our states to make sure
our students, all of them, are
graduating from high school
ready for college -- so we can meet our goal of graduating a
higher proportion of students from college than any other
country in the world by 2020.
And yet, if Republicans in
Congress had their way,
we'd have had a harder time meeting that goal.
We'd have had a harder time offering our kids the best
education possible.
Because they'd have cut education by 20% --
cuts that would reduce financial
aid for eight million students;
cuts that would leave our great
and undervalued community
colleges without the resources
they need to prepare our
graduates for the jobs of the
future.
Now, it's true that when it comes to our budget,
we have real challenges to meet.
And if we're serious about
getting our fiscal house in
order, we'll need to make some
tough choices.
I'm prepared to make those
choices.
But what I'm not prepared to do
is to shortchange our children's education.
What I'm not prepared to do is
undercut their economic future,
your economic future, or the
economic future of the United
States of America.
Nothing would be more
detrimental to our prospects for
success than cutting back on
education.
It would consign America to
second place in our fiercely
competitive global economy.
But China and India aren't
playing for second.
South Korea and Germany -- they aren't playing for second.
They're playing for first -- and so should the United States of America.
Instead of being shortsighted
and shortchanging our kids,
we should be doubling down on
them.
We should be giving every child
in America a chance to make the
most of their lives; to fulfill
their God-given potential.
We should be fighting to lead
the global economy in this
century, just like we did in the
last.
And that's what I'll continue
fighting to do in the months and
years ahead.
Thanks, everybody, and have a
great weekend.